This note is in [Hasura.GraphQL.Schema.Select](https://github.com/hasura/graphql-engine/blob/master/server/src-lib/Hasura/GraphQL/Schema/Select.hs#L493).
It is referenced at:
  - line 609 of [Hasura.GraphQL.Schema.Select](https://github.com/hasura/graphql-engine/blob/master/server/src-lib/Hasura/GraphQL/Schema/Select.hs#L609)

# Selectability of tables


The GraphQL specification requires that if the type of a selected field is an
interface, union, or object, then its subselection set must not be empty
(Section 5.3.3).  Since we model database tables by GraphQL objects, this means
that a table can be selected as a GraphQL field only if it has fields that we
can select, such as a column.  It is perfectly fine not to allow any selections
of any columns of the table in the database.  In that case, the table would not
be selectable as a field in GraphQL.

However, this is not the end of the story.  In addition to scalar fields, we
support relationships between tables, so that we may have another table B as a
selected field of this table A.  Then the selectability of A depends on the
selectability of B: if we permit selection a column of B, then, as a
consequence, we permit selection of the relationship from A to B, and hence we
permit selection of A, as there would now be valid GraphQL syntax that selects
A.  In turn, the selectability of B can depend on the selectability of a further
table C, through a relationship from B to C.

Now consider the case of a table A, whose columns themselves are not selectable,
but which has a relationship with itself.  Is A selectable?  In fact, if A has
no further relationships with other tables, or any computed fields, A is not
selectable.  But as soon as any leaf field in the transitive closure of tables
related to A becomes selectable, A itself becomes selectable.

In summary, figuring out the selectability of a table is a mess.  In order to
avoid doing graph theory, for now, we simply pretend that GraphQL did not have
the restriction of only allowing selections of fields of type objects when its
subselection is non-empty.  In practice, this white lie is somewhat unlikely to
cause errors on the client side, for the following reasons:

- Introspection of the GraphQL schema is normally provided to aid development of
  valid GraphQL schemas, and so any errors in the exposed schema can be caught
  at development time: when a developer is building a GraphQL query using schema
  introspection, they will eventually find out that the selection they aim to do
  is not valid GraphQL.  Put differently: exposing a given field through
  introspection is not the same as claiming that there is a valid GraphQL query
  that selects that field.

- We only support tables that have at least one column (since we require primary
  keys), so that the admin role can select every table anyway.

